I want to do a quick exercise.
Close your eyes.
I want you to picture your best friend.
Think about what specifically
you love about them.
What trait makes them them?
Now open your eyes.
I don't know what
each of you came up with,
but I'm pretty sure I know
what you didn't come up with.
I’m pretty sure none of you thought,
"What makes Jim Jim is the fact
that he's six-foot-two and a redhead."
I'm guessing you chose
their inner qualities,
their sense of humor,
their generosity, their intelligence,
qualities they would have
no matter what they looked like.
There's one more quality
I'm pretty sure you didn't choose.
Their race.
Of all the things you could
list about somebody,
their race is just about
the least interesting you can name,
right down there
with height and hair color.
Sure, race can be good source material
for jokes at a comedy club,
but in the real world,
a person's race doesn't tell you
whether they're kind or selfish,
whether their beliefs are right or wrong,
whether they'll become
your best friend or your worst enemy.
But over the past ten years,
our societies have become more
and more fixated on racial identity.
We've all been invited to reflect
on our inner whiteness or inner Blackness,
as if these racial essences
define who we are.
Meanwhile, American society
has experienced the greatest crisis
in race relations in a generation.
Gallup has been asking Americans
how they feel about race relations,
and this chart is the result.
So as you can see, between 2001 and 2013,
most Americans felt good
about race relations.
Then both lines take a nosedive.
It's no exaggeration to call this
one of the greatest crises of our time.
And clearly we need new ways
of thinking about race
if we're going to reverse this trend.
So today I'm going to offer an old idea,
but it's an idea that's been
widely misunderstood.
You've probably heard it before,
it's called color blindness.
What do I mean by color blindness?
After all, we all see race.
We can't help it.
And what's more, race
can influence how we're treated
and how we treat other people.
So in that sense,
nobody is truly colorblind.
But to interpret
the word colorblind so literally
is to misunderstand it.
Colorblind is a word like warmhearted.
It uses a physical metaphor
to capture an abstract idea.
To call someone warmhearted isn’t to talk
about the temperature of their heart
but about the kindness of their soul.
And similarly, to advocate
for color blindness
is not to pretend you don't notice race.
It's to support a principle
that we should try our best
to treat people without regard to race,
both in our personal lives
and in our public policy.
And you might be thinking,
what's so controversial about that?
Well, the fact is the philosophy
of color blindness is under attack.
Critics say that it's naive
or that we're not yet ready
for it as a society
or even that it's white
supremacy in disguise.
And many people agree with these feelings.
For example, a few years ago,
a young adult fantasy author
came under pressure
to halt the release of her new book.
Why?
Because the marketing blurb
for the book went like this:
"In a world where the princess
is the monster,
oppression is blind to skin color,
and good and evil
exist in shades of gray ..."
Now that one sentence clause
about oppression
being blind to skin color,
describing a fantasy world, mind you,
was enough to provoke an online backlash.
Now, part of this reaction
to color blindness
is actually a fault of its advocates.
People will say things like,
“I don’t see color” as a way of expressing
support for color blindness.
But this phrase is guaranteed
to produce confusion
because you do see color, right?
I think we should all
get rid of this phrase
and replace it with what
we really mean to say,
which is, "I try to treat people
without regard to race."
Now, that said,
most of the pushback
to color blindness comes from critics
who misrepresent it
as somehow a conservative idea.
Now, this could not be further
from the truth.
The philosophy of color blindness
does not come from conservatives.
It actually comes from the radical wing
of the antislavery movement
in the 19th century.
The earliest mentions of color blindness
come from Wendell Phillips,
who was the president of the American
Anti-Slavery Society
and a man whose nickname
was "abolition's golden trumpet."
He believed in immediate full equality
for Black Americans.
And in 1865, he called for the creation
of a "government colorblind,"
by which he meant the permanent end
of all laws that mention race.
What about the other critiques
of color blindness?
Wouldn’t color blindness render us
unable to fight racism?
Wouldn't it mean getting rid of policies
like affirmative action
that benefit people of color?
I believe that eliminating
race-based policies
does not equal eliminating policies
meant to reduce inequality.
It simply means that those policies
should be executed
on the basis of class instead of race.
Why class over race?
I'll give two reasons.
First because class is almost
always a better proxy
for true disadvantage than race.
Imagine we picked ten Americans at random.
And our task is to sort them
from least privileged on one end
to most privileged on the other.
Now, there's no direct
measure of privilege,
so we have to choose a proxy measure.
My claim here is that lining them up
by income or wealth
would get us closer to achieving that task
than simply lining people up by race.
That's what I mean when I say
that class is usually a better proxy
for disadvantage than race.
And the second reason is that class-based
policies tend to be more popular
and less controversial
because they don't penalize anyone
for immutable biological traits.
Think of policies like
need-based financial aid
or the earned-income tax credit.
These are policies that address inequality
without anyone having to feel
the sting of racial discrimination.
I want to give you an example
of a disastrous race-based policy.
It was called the Restaurant
Revitalization Fund.
Over 70,000 restaurants closed
in 2020 due to the pandemic,
and this fund allocated 29 billion dollars
to help these restaurants.
But for the first three weeks
of the program,
only people of color,
women and veterans could apply.
So soon after it began,
white male restaurant owners sued,
alleging discrimination.
A judge ruled in their favor,
and the program was stopped.
But by that time, two thirds
of the money was already gone.
And it wasn't just white men that got
discriminated against in this policy.
Around 3,000 women and people of color
were promised money
before the judge stopped the program
and then unpromised that money just after.
And the remaining 10 billion
then went to white men
who had initially been put
at the back of the line.
So the net result of this policy
was a double dose of discrimination.
Initially, thousands of white men
were discriminated against
and then thousands of women and people
of color were discriminated against.
And it's a virtual guarantee
that there are people out there
who lost their restaurant
in both of those camps
because they were the wrong skin color.
Can anyone really argue
that a colorblind program wouldn't have
produced better results for everybody?
So I just gave an example
of a disastrous race-based policy.
Now, I want to give you an example
of a colorblind policy
that has worked quite well.
America has been struggling
with the issue of racial bias in policing
for a very long time.
And a solution to one aspect
of this problem
is to issue tickets using traffic cameras
instead of human beings.
Cops can be racially biased,
consciously or not,
but traffic cameras, red light cameras
and speeding cameras can't.
So you would think anyone interested
in reducing racial bias in policing
would support these traffic cameras.
But you'd be wrong.
Some have opposed them on the grounds
that they don't yield statistically equal
ticketing rates by race,
and they remain illegal in many US states.
So here's an example
where the philosophy of color blindness
cuts through confusion like a knife.
If we’re guided by color blindness,
our goal should be to eliminate bias
from systems that affect people's lives
wherever possible,
not to manufacture statistically equal
outcomes by any means necessary.
So my talk has been focused on America,
but my message is really
for any key decision maker
at any institution anywhere in the world.
If you care about fighting racism,
embrace color blindness.
Support class-based policies.
Create colorblind processes
in your own world.
If you're a professor,
grade your students' papers
blind to their names.
Think creatively about how to apply
color blindness to your life.
Color blindness is the best principle
by which to govern a multiracial,
multiethnic democracy.
It's the best way to lower the temperature
of tribal conflict in the long run.
And if we wait for the moment
when society is ready for it,
we'll be waiting forever.
Thank you.
(Applause)
Chris Anderson: Coleman,
thank you for this.
You know, Mellody Hobson
came to TED a few years ago,
and she had a very different
message for us.
She said, be color brave, not colorblind.
Her argument was that being
colorblind is dangerous
because it's effectively
ignoring the problem.
What would you want to say to her?
Coleman Hughes: Yeah.
One thing I would say is, like I said,
color blindness as a philosophy,
that is the goal.
That's an idea that comes
from the anti-slavery movement, right?
That's not an example
of ignoring the problem.
That's an example
of having the best philosophy
with which to address
the problem, in my view.
CA: But could you argue that that dealt
with one part of the problem
but in today's world, there are still many
situations where it's not enough.
Take this story of an orchestra, right,
an orchestra, and it's largely white.
And that doesn't feel right.
So they institute a policy
of color blindness where,
you know, there can't be
any racial discrimination
because new musicians
are auditioned behind a screen.
That's colorblind.
So, so far, so good.
And maybe that helps.
But maybe the actual situation
is that the minority kids in that area
just don't have access to instruments,
it's just harder for them ever to get
the kind of training and stuff they need.
And the orchestra needs to be taking
a lead to bring people through
so that there are people in that orchestra
who can inspire the kids
and so forth.
CH: Yeah, so I would
propose a different --
So if I were leading that orchestra,
what I would do is I'd say,
let's continue to audition
everyone behind the veil,
be colorblind in that sense,
and then let's separately
invest in the community
so that we can get kids
instruments when they're young
and then judge them
by a colorblind standard
when they come to audition.
See, if you rig it at this level,
then you're just changing the bar
by which you would measure progress
to begin with, right?
So I think that is a kind of
an artificial solution,
whereas we want to maintain
colorblind standards,
but actually address the root
causes of the problem.
(Applause)
CA: Coleman, you're an incredibly
powerful voice on this issue,
and I really thank you for the courage
to come here, make this case.
Good luck with the book.
CH: Thank you, TED.